R-0.0.1 (#89)
bob-crutchley/notes: topics/git/modules/cloning/README.md

<!--PROPS
{
    "estTime": 10
}
-->
# Cloning

<!--TOC_START-->
### Contents
- [Overview](#overview)
	- [Cloning a repository](#cloning-a-repository)
- [Tasks](#tasks)
	- [Cloning a Repository](#cloning-a-repository-1)

<!--TOC_END-->
## Overview

> `git clone` allows the cloning of a repository to a newly created directory. Additionally the command creates remote

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`git clone` allows the cloning of a repository to a newly created directory. Additionally, the command creates remote
```

> tracking branches for the ones in the repository and checks out the initial branch which is the current active branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tracking branches for the ones in the repository and checks out the initial branch (which becomes the current active branch).
```

> Once the cloning is done `git fetch` can be executed without additional arguments to get updates for the remote 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the clone is created, `git fetch` can be executed, without additional arguments, to get updates for the remote 
```

> branches. Similarly a `git pull` without arguments would merge the remote branch into the current branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
branches. Similarly, a `git pull`, without arguments, would merge the remote branch into the current branch.
```

### Cloning a repository

> In order to clone a repository there are a couple of prerequisites:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to clone a repository, there are a couple of things you need to do first:
```

> * Git installed on the machine

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Install Git on your machine
```

> * URL of the repository

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Find the URL of the repository you want to clone
```

> To get the URL of the repository you would need to find a repository you would like to have on your machine. Once you 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get the URL of the repository you want to clone, you need to go to that repository in the VCS you are using (such as GitHub). 
```

> you found the repository click on the *Clone or Download* and copy the URL. </br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once there, you can click on the *Clone or Download* and copy the URL. </br>
```

![Fork >](https://imgur.com/hkzKOvt.png)
![Fork >](https://imgur.com/hOQZaFu.png)

> Open a terminal and navigate to the directory where you want to have the project saved. You can create a directory 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open a terminal and navigate to the directory where you want to have the project saved. You can create a directory named
```

> *projects* or use and existing one. In the example below, a new directory is created. </br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*projects* or use an existing one. In the example below, a new directory is created. </br>
```

![Fork >](https://imgur.com/3b4KMCR.png)

After the cloning has been completed, change to the project directory and run `git branch` to check that the active branch has been 
checked out. </br>
![Fork >](https://imgur.com/UEAW1EN.png)

## Tasks

### Cloning a Repository

* Create a new repository
    * Initialise the repository with a README.md file

> * Clone the repository to desired location

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Clone the repository to the desired location
```
